Communication

When you work in a distributed environment, you need to communicate with remote users and you also need to access remote Unix machines.
There are several Unix utilities that help users compute in a networked, distributed environment.

A. The ping Utility
   The ping command sends an echo request to a host available on the network. Using
   this command, you can check if your remote host is responding well or not.
   Syntax :
   $ ping hostname or ip-address
   Contoh :
   $ ping example.com
   $ ping 192.x.x.x

B. The FTP Utility
   FTP stands for File Transfer Protocol. This utility helps you upload and
   download your file from one computer to another computer.
   The ftp utility has its own set of Unix-like commands.
   Commands help to perform task :
   - Connect and login to a remote host.
   - Navigate directories.
   - List directory contents.
   - Put and get files.
   - Transfer files as ascii, ebcdic(Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange
     Code) or binary.
   Syntax :
   $ ftp hostname or ip-address
   Note :
   The above command would prompt you for the login ID and the password. Once you
   are authenticated, you can access the home directory of the login account and
   you would be able to perform various commands.
   Commands :
   1. put filename
      Uploads filename from the local machine to the remote machine.
   2. get filename
      Downloads filename from the remote machine to the local machine.
   3. mput file list
      Uploads more than one file from the local machine to the remote machine
   4. mget file list
      Downloads more than one file from the remote machine to the local machine
   5. prompt off
      Turns the prompt off. By default, you will receive a prompt to upload or
      download files using mput or mget commands.
   6. prompt on
      Turns the prompt on.
   7. dir
      Lists all the files available in the current directory of the remote machine
   8. cd dirname
      Changes directory to dirname on the remote machine.
   9. lcd dirname
      Changes directory to dirname on the local machine.
   10. quit
       Helps logout from the current login.
   Contoh :
   $ ftp example.com
   Connected to example.com.
   220 example.com FTP server (Ver 4.9 Thu Sep 2 20:35:07 CDT 2009)
   Name (example.com:example): example
   331 Password required for example.
   Password:
   230 User example logged in.
   ftp> dir
   fto> quit
   
C. The telnet Utility
   Telnet is a utility that allows a computer user at one site to make a
   connection, login and then conduct work on a computer at another site. Once you
   login using Telnet, you can perform all the activities on your remotely
   connected machine.
   $ telnet example.com
   Trying...
   Connected to amrood.com.
   Escape character is '^]'.

   login: rahul
   Password: **** 
   
D. The Finger Utility
   The finger command displays information about users on a given host. The host
   can be either local or remote.
   Finger may be disabled on other systems for security reasons.
   Following is the simple syntax to use the finger command −
   
   Check all the logged-in users on the local machine −
   $ finger
   Login     Name       Tty      Idle     Login Time      Office
   rahul                 pts/0             Jun 25 08:03    (62.61.164.115)
   
   Get information about a specific user available on the local machine −
   $ finger rahul
   Login: rahul                            Name: (null)
   Directory: /home/rahul                  Shell: /bin/bash
   On since Thu Jun 25 08:03 (MST) on pts/0 from 62.61.164.115
   No mail.
   No Plan.
   
   Check all the logged-in users on the remote machine −
   $ finger @rahul.com
   Login     Name       Tty      Idle  Login Time   Office
   rahul               pts/0          Jun 25 08:03 (62.61.164.115)
   
   Get the information about a specific user available on the remote machine −
   $ finger rahul@surume.com
   Login: rahul                           Name: (null)
   Directory: /home/rahul                 Shell: /bin/bash
   On since Thu Jun 25 08:03 (MST) on pts/0 from 62.61.164.115
   No mail.
   No Plan.
